.\"	$OpenBSD$
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2020 Kristaps Dzonsons <kristaps@bsd.lv>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt CALDAV_PARSE 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ical_parse
.Nd parse a CalDAV file
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libkcaldav
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In libkcaldav.h
.Ft struct caldav *
.Fo caldav_parse
.Fa const char *file
.Fa const char *cp
.Fa size_t len
.Fa char **er
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Parse an CalDAV file given in
.Fa cp ,
which may not be
.Dv NULL ,
of length
.Fa sz .
If
.Fa file
is not
.Dv NULL ,
it is used for reporting errors only.
The
.Fa er ,
if not
.Dv NULL ,
is filled in with an error message on parse failure.
.Pp
The parsed CalDAV file must be freed with
.Xr caldav_free 3 .
If errors occur and
.Fa er
is set, the error string must be freed with
.Xr free 3 .
.Pp
The returned
.Vt struct caldav
structure has the following members:
.Bl -tag -width Ds -offset indent
.It Va enum calreqtype type
Type of CalDAV request.
.It Va struct calprop *props
Array of properties passed in the request.
This is
.Dv NULL
if the request has no properties.
.It Va size_t propsz
The number of properties in
.Fa props .
.It Va char **hrefs
Any URLs passed in with the request or
.Dv NULL
if not having an URLs.
These are interpreted depending upon the request.
.It Va size_t hrefsz
The number of elements in
.Fa hrefs .
.El
The calendar properties are encoded in
.Vt struct calprop :
.Bl -tag -width -Ds -offset indent
.It Va enum calproptype key
The property type or 
.Dv CALPROP__MAX
if unknown.
.It Va char *name
The property name (without its XML namespace).
.It Va char *xmlns
The property XML namespace.
.It Va char *val
The value of the property or
.Dv NULL
if it has none.
.It Va int valid
Validity of property: if -1, invalid; if zero, not valid; if 1, valid.
.El
.\" The following requests should be uncommented and used where appropriate.
.\" .Sh CONTEXT
.\" For section 9 functions only.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Returns the parse object on success.
It must be freed with
.Xr caldav_free 3 .
On failure, returns
.Dv NULL .
.Pp
The
.Fa er
pointer, if not
.Dv NULL ,
is provided an error message.
If the error message is
.Dv NULL ,
memory allocation has failed.
.\" For sections 2, 3, and 9 function return values only.
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT
.\" For sections 1, 6, 7, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh FILES
.\" .Sh EXIT STATUS
.\" For sections 1, 6, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh EXAMPLES
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.\" For sections 1, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9 printf/stderr messages only.
.\" .Sh ERRORS
.\" For sections 2, 3, 4, and 9 errno settings only.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr caldav_free 3
.Sh STANDARDS
The CalDAV and underlying WebDAV formats are specified in RFC 4918
.Pq WebDAV , 
RFC 4791
.Pq CalDAV ,
caldav-ctag-02
.Pq CalDAV ctags ,
RFC 3744
.Pq the ACL component ,
RFC 5397
.Pq current principal address ,
and RFC 4331 
.Pq file-system quota .
.\" .Sh HISTORY
.\" .Sh AUTHORS
.\" .Sh CAVEATS
.\" .Sh BUGS
