.\"	$OpenBSD$
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2020 Kristaps Dzonsons <kristaps@bsd.lv>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt ICAL_PRINT 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ical_print ,
.Nm ical_printfile
.Nd print out a parsed iCalendar file
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libkcaldav
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In libkcaldav.h
.Ft int
.Fo ical_print
.Fa const struct ical *p
.Fa ical_putchar fp
.Fa void *arg
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo ical_printfile
.Fa int fd
.Fa const struct ical *p
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Prints an iCalendar
.Fa p
as parsed with
.Xr ical_parse 3 .
.Pp
The
.Fn ical_printfile
is a short form that uses
.Xr putchar 3
for writing to a file descriptor
.Fa fd .
.Pp
The
.Fn ical_print
form takes a writing function
.Fa fp ,
which is invoked with a character to write and the value of
.Fa arg .
.\" The following requests should be uncommented and used where appropriate.
.\" .Sh CONTEXT
.\" For section 9 functions only.
.\" .Sh RETURN VALUES
.\" For sections 2, 3, and 9 function return values only.
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT
.\" For sections 1, 6, 7, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh FILES
.\" .Sh EXIT STATUS
.\" For sections 1, 6, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh EXAMPLES
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.\" For sections 1, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9 printf/stderr messages only.
.\" .Sh ERRORS
.\" For sections 2, 3, 4, and 9 errno settings only.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ical_parse 3
.\" .Sh STANDARDS
.\" .Sh HISTORY
.\" .Sh AUTHORS
.\" .Sh CAVEATS
.\" .Sh BUGS
