.\" Copyright (c) Kristaps Dzonsons <kristaps@bsd.lv>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt ICAL_PARSE 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ical_parse
.Nd parse an iCalendar file
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libkcaldav
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In libkcaldav.h
.Ft struct ical *
.Fo ical_parse
.Fa const char *file
.Fa const char *cp
.Fa size_t len
.Fa size_t *pos
.Fa char **er
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Parse an iCalendar file given in
.Fa cp ,
which may not be
.Dv NULL ,
of length
.Fa sz ,
and optionally starting at
.Fa pos
or zero if
.Fa pos
is
.Dv NULL .
If
.Fa file
is not
.Dv NULL ,
it is used for reporting errors only.
The
.Fa er ,
if not
.Dv NULL ,
is filled in with an error message on parse failure.
.Pp
The parsed iCalendar file must be freed with
.Xr ical_free 3 .
If errors occur and
.Fa er
is set, the error string must be freed with
.Xr free 3 .
.Pp
The returned
.Vt struct ical
structure has the following members:
.Bl -tag -width Ds -offset indent
.It Va unsigned int bits
Bit-mask of components covered by the object.
May be one or more of
.Dv ICAL_VCALENDAR ,
.Dv ICAL_VEVENT ,
.Dv ICAL_VTODO ,
.Dv ICAL_VJOURNAL ,
.Dv ICAL_VFREEBUSY ,
.Dv ICAL_VTIMEZONE ,
or
.Dv ICAL_VALARM .
The
.Dv ICAL_VCALENDAR
is always set.
There may be more than one of each of of these components.
.It Va struct icalnode *first
A pointer to the first raw parsed properties.
.It Va struct icalcomp *comps[]
All components, grouped by type.
There may be more than one component per bucket in a linked list format.
If the component is unspecified, it's
.Dv NULL .
.El
.Pp
Each calendar component is represented by
.Vt struct icalcomp
as follows.
.Bl -tag -width Ds -offset indent
.It Va struct icalcomp *next
The next component of the same type or
.Dv NULL
if this is the last.
.It Va enum icaltype type
The type of the component.
.It Va struct icaltm created
The parsed
.Dv CREATED
value.
.It Va struct icaltm lastmod
The parsed
.Dv LASTMODIFIED
value.
.It Va struct icaltm dtstamp
The parsed
.Dv DTSTAMP
component.
.It Va struct icalrrule rrule
The
.Dv RRULE
or all zeroes, if not specified.
.It Va struct icaltime dtstart
The
.Dv DTSTART
or all zeroes, if not specified.
.It Va struct icaltime dtend
The
.Dv DTEND
or all zeroes, if not specified.
.It Va struct icaldur duration
The
.Dv DURATION
or all zeroes, if not specified.
.It Va struct icaltz *tzs
The timezone rules or
.Dv NULL
if not specified.
.It Va size_t tzsz
The number of elements in
.Va tzs .
.It Va const char *uid
The
.Dv UID
of the component of
.Dv NULL
if not specified.
.It Va const char *tzid
The
.Dv TZID
of the component.
.El
.Pp
Date-time pairs in iCalendar are represented with
.Vt struct icaltime :
.Bl -tag -width Ds -offset indent
.It Va const struct icalcomp *tz
The parsed time-zone component.
This is
.Dv NULL
if the date is in UTC format.
.It Va struct icaltm time
The time component.
.It Va char *tzstr
String equivalent of
.Va tz
or
.Dv NULL
if not associated with a time-zone.
.El
.Pp
Time-zone components in
.Vt struct icalcomp
have either or both daylight and standard
.Vt struct icaltz :
.Bl -tag -width Ds -offset indent
.It Va enum icaltztype type
Type of time-zone definition.
.It Va int tzfrom
Seconds from.
.It Va int tzto
Seconds to.
.It Va struct icaltm dtstart
When the definition is in effect.
.It Va struct icalrrule rrule
Either the recursive definition or all zeroes if not set.
.El
.Pp
Recursive rules are parsed into
.Vt struct icalrrule :
.Bl -tag -width Ds -offset indent
.It Va int set
Non-zero if the structure has been set, zero otherwise.
.It Va enum icalfreq freq
The
.Dv FREQ
value.
.It Va struct icaltm until
The
.Dv UNTIL
value or zeroes if unset.
.It Va unsigned long count
The
.Dv COUNT
value or zero if unset.
.It Va unsigned long interval
The
.Dv INTERVAL
value or zero if unset.
.It Va unsigned long *bhr
The
.Dv BYHOUR
values or
.Dv NULL
if not set.
.It Va size_t bhrsz
The number of elements in
.Va bhr .
.It Va unsigned long *bmin
The
.Dv BYMINUTE
values or
.Dv NULL
if not set.
.It Va size_t bminsz
The number of elements in
.Va bmin .
.It Va long *bmnd
The
.Dv BYMONTHDAY
values or
.Dv NULL
if not set.
.It Va size_t bmndsz
The number of elements in
.Va bmnd .
.It Va unsigned long *bmon
The
.Dv BYMONTH
values or
.Dv NULL
if not set.
.It Va size_t bmonsz
The number of elements in
.Va bmon .
.It Va unsigned long *bsec
The
.Dv BYSECOND
values or
.Dv NULL
if not set.
.It Va size_t bsecsz
The number of elements in
.Va bsec .
.It Va long *bsp
The
.Dv BYSETPOS
values or
.Dv NULL
if not set.
.It Va size_t bspsz
The number of elements in
.Va bsp .
.It Va struct icalwk *bwkd
The
.Dv BYDAY
values or
.Dv NULL
if not set.
.It Va size_t bwkdsz
The number of elements in
.Va bwkd .
.It Va long *bwkn
The
.Dv BYWEEKNO
values or
.Dv NULL
if not set.
.It Va size_t bwknsz
The number of elements in
.Va bwkn .
.It Va long *byrd
The
.Dv BYYEARDAY
values or
.Dv NULL
if not set.
.It Va size_t byrdsz
The number of elements in
.Va byrd .
.It Va enum icalwkday wkst
The weekday value.
.El
.Pp
Durations are encoded as
.Vt struct icaldur :
.Bl -tag -width Ds -offset indent
.It Va int sign
If greater than zero, a positive duration; ir less than zero, negative.
This is zero if the duration has not been set.
.It Va unsigned long day
The number of days starting at zero.
.It Va unsigned long week
The number of weeks starting at zero.
.It Va unsigned long hour
The number of hours starting at zero.
.It Va unsigned long min
The number of minutes starting at zero.
.It Va unsigned long sec
The number of seconds starting at zero.
.El
.Pp
Various components depend upon a simple time value in
.Vt struct icaltm :
.Bl -tag -width Ds -offset indent
.It Va time_t tm
The UNIX epoch value.
.Em Note :
this may be replaced by a native 64-bit value so that 32-bit time
systems aren't affected.
.It Va "enum icaldatet type"
If
.Dv ICAL_DT_UNSET ,
the date-time has no been set.
Otherwise, the format of the date-time:
a date
.Pq Dv ICAL_T_DATE ,
date and time
.Pq Dv ICAL_T_DATETIME ,
or UTC date and time
.Pq Dv ICAL_T_DATETIMEUTC .
.El
.Pp
Weekday values are set in
.Vt struct icalwk :
.Bl -tag -width Ds -offset indent
.It Va long wk
The week number or zero if not set.
.It Va enum icalwkday wkday
Zero if not set or the day of week.
.El
.Pp
The raw parsed but unprocessed properties are held in a linked list of
.Vt struct icalnode :
.Bl -tag -width Ds -offset indent
.It Va char *name
The name of the property.
.It Va char *param
Additional parameters of the property.
This may be
.Dv NULL .
.It Va char *val
The value of the property.
.It Va struct icalnode *next
The next property in the sequence or
.Dv NULL
if there are no more.
.El
.\" The following requests should be uncommented and used where appropriate.
.\" .Sh CONTEXT
.\" For section 9 functions only.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Returns the parse object on success.
It must be freed with
.Xr ical_free 3 .
If
.Fa pos
is not
.Dv NULL ,
it is updated to the current position in the buffer.
.Pp
On failure, returns
.Dv NULL .
.Pp
The
.Fa er
pointer, if not
.Dv NULL ,
is provided an error message.
If the error message is
.Dv NULL ,
memory allocation has failed.
The error string pointer must be freed by the caller.
.\" For sections 2, 3, and 9 function return values only.
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT
.\" For sections 1, 6, 7, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh FILES
.\" .Sh EXIT STATUS
.\" For sections 1, 6, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh EXAMPLES
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.\" For sections 1, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9 printf/stderr messages only.
.\" .Sh ERRORS
.\" For sections 2, 3, 4, and 9 errno settings only.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ical_free 3
.Sh STANDARDS
The iCalendar format is specified in RFC 5545,
.Pq Internet Calendaring and Scheduling Core Object .
.\" .Sh HISTORY
.\" .Sh AUTHORS
.\" .Sh CAVEATS
.\" .Sh BUGS
