.\" Copyright (c) Kristaps Dzonsons <kristaps@bsd.lv>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt KCALDAV.CONF 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm kcaldav.conf
.Nd kcaldav configuration
.\" .Sh LIBRARY
.\" For sections 2, 3, and 9 only.
.\" Not used in OpenBSD.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm kcaldav.conf
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
file specifies run-time configuration for
.Xr kcaldav 8 .
Its location relative to the web server root is set at compile-time.
If not set, or the file does not exist, system defaults are used.
.Pp
The file is designed to be human readable and contains a list of keywords with
values that represent run-time configuration.
.Pp
A keyword and its value must appear on a single line.
The keyword and value are separated by the equal sign
.Pq = .
White-space at the start, end, and around the equal sign are stripped.
A hash mark
.Pq #
in the file indicates the beginning of a comment; subsequent characters up to
the end of the line are not interpereted by the routines that read the file.
If the hash mark is preceded by a backslash
.Pq \e ,
the backslash is stripped from input, but the hash mark is retained.
Blank lines (even if containing spaces) are ignored.
It is an error to specify unknown keywords or keywords without a equal sign.
.Pp
The configuration options are:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ic logfile
File for writing log messages.
This must already exist and be writable by the
.Xr kcaldav 8
process.
If specified as an empty string or not specified, the default is writing log
messages to
.Dv stderr .
.It Ic debug
A non-negative number indicating log level.
Zero, the default, outputs only warning and error messages.
One additionally outputs informational messages.
Two additionally outputs database debug messages.
Three additionally outputs network debug messages.
.El
.\" .Sh CONTEXT
.\" For section 9 functions only.
.\" .Sh IMPLEMENTATION NOTES
.\" .Sh RETURN VALUES
.\" For sections 2, 3, and 9 function return values only.
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT
.\" For sections 1, 6, 7, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh FILES
.\" .Sh EXIT STATUS
.\" For sections 1, 6, and 8 only.
.Sh EXAMPLES
A reasonable default configuration is as follows:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# Instead of logging to stderr (usually stored in the web server's
# error.log), log to a specific file relative to the web server
# chroot.
logfile=/logs/kcaldav.log

# Set debug=1 to also output informational messages.
# Set debug=2 to also output database debug messages.
# Set debug=3 to also output network debug messages.
debug=1
.Ed
.Pp
For submitting bug reports,
.Ic debug
should be set to 3.
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.\" For sections 1, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9 printf/stderr messages only.
.\" .Sh ERRORS
.\" For sections 2, 3, 4, and 9 errno settings only.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr kcaldav 8
.\" .Sh STANDARDS
.\" .Sh HISTORY
.\" .Sh AUTHORS
.\" .Sh CAVEATS
.\" .Sh BUGS
.\" .Sh SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
.\" Not used in OpenBSD.
